While students will gain considerable depth in a discipline from their majors, minors, and concentrations, the breadth of our curriculum 
will be experienced by completing 3- or 4-credit courses that satisfy our area and diversity requirements. First-year students are also 
required to take a writing-intensive course (W1) and should begin work on their foreign language requirement.  These requirements are
described in more detail below and offerings for fall 2026 are listed for you to browse (current at the time this site was updated in May;
please use Find Courses for Registration in Workday for the most up-to-date information). 


Diversity Requirements
Students are required to pass two three- or four-credit-hour courses that have as a central focus overcoming prejudice, privilege, oppression,
inequality, and injustice. Thus, typically structures, workings, progress, and consequences of political and cultural changes directed for or
against this focus constitute most of the course.

One of these courses must deal with these issues as they concern the United States (U designation in course description), and one must deal
with these issues in a context other than the United States (International; I designation in course description).

Many of our courses look at diversity through the lens of an area requirement, such as literature, art, history, or social sciences. In the
sections below, you can find lists of courses that meet just U or I; several of these may also meet an area requirement. Courses that show
up with the same title in more than one department are cross-listed and are being jointly offered by more than one department (and can be
taken in either department). 


Distribution Areas
Students are required to pass one 3- or 4-credit-hour course in the Areas of Arts, Historical Studies, Literature, Quantitative Reasoning and
Social Sciences and two 3- or4-credit-hour courses in the Area of Natural Sciences, one of which must have a lab. Courses that satisfy these
requirements are listed in the sections below. Note that some of the courses listed here also appear in the diversity course lists and thus
satisfy both an area distribution requirement and a diversity distribution requirement. Courses that show up with the same title in more than
one department are cross-listed and are being jointly offered by more than one department (and can be taken in either department). 


Advising: What to Expect and How to Prepare
Your first big, important task will be to register for fall classes. You can read in more detail about the process and dates for fall
registration on the first-year advising timeline. In brief, summer advising will happen during the last three weeks of June, with fall
registration taking place starting June 22, 2026.

As a new student, you should browse through Colby’s Liberal Arts Curriculum, and check out the Advice from Academic Departments. These resources
will give you a solid starting point for putting together your fall schedule. You can read more about courses and find out days/times that
courses are offered in Workday.

You will be invited to sign up for a small group advising Zoom session from June 8 to noon on June 16 with one of our summer faculty advisors
and you are strongly encouraged to do so. There will be many options across weekdays, from the morning into the evening, plus over the weekend.
You will not have a specific advisor assignment so you can select any of the available openings. To get the most out of the advising sessions,
you should review the resources noted above and come prepared with any questions you may have.

You will also have the option of signing up for a second small group advising Zoom session with a summer faculty advisor starting the afternoon
of June 16 and continuing through June 21. To get the most out of this session, you should have browsed potential courses to take in Workday and
compiled a list of questions you have and/or specific points you wish to get further clarity or advice on to be ready for course registration,
starting on June 22.

Summer faculty advisors will be available for consultation the week of June 22 via a drop-in Zoom session open much of the day. 


Your First-Year Advising Team
At Colby, we take a team approach to academic advising before you declare your major. Students have access to faculty, staff, peers, and
specialized advisors to help plan for your arrival, select your fall courses, and, once on campus, navigate your academic journey. Once you
declare a major, which you can do as early as the spring of your first year, you will be assigned a major advisor, but your first-year team will 
lways be a resource for you throughout your Colby education.


Academic departments at Colby have prepared advice for first-year students that can be found below. If you have questions beyond this information,
there is a contact indicated for each department who you can get in touch with for more information. At the end of the list below you will also
find information on the Integrated Studies Program at Colby.

Advice from Departments - African American Studies
What would you tell a first-year student about African American Studies? African American Studies at Colby focuses on the cross-cultural and
cross-temporal experiences of peoples of African descent in the United States and connects those experiences to the literatures, histories, and
cultures of Africa and of Latin America and the Caribbean.

What majors/minors/concentrations can students pursue in African American Studies department/program? Students can major or minor in African American Studies.
What course(s) should a student plan to take in their first year if they intend to major/minor in your department/program? We recommend that
students take AA 125 (Introduction to African American Cultures) and AA 247 (African-American History, from Slavery to Freedom) in their first year.

What course(s), if any, does African American Studies department/program offer that would fulfill a distribution and/or diversity requirement? Most of our courses
fulfill at least one distribution and/or diversity requirement.

What else would be helpful for first-year students to know? Our transdisciplinary program of study includes a wide variety of courses offered in
other departments (e.g. American Studies, Anthropology, English, Government, Latin American Studies, Philosophy, and Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality
Studies). We encourage students to deepen their academic experience through study-abroad programs or through off-campus study at historically Black
institutions in the United States.

African American Studies
Who can students contact if they have additional questions? Cathy Bevier, Oak Professor of Biology and Chair of African American Studies

Advice from Departments - American Studies
What would you tell a first-year student about American Studies? American Studies majors ask how power works in order to imagine a more just world.
They examine race, class, gender, sexuality and nation to understand how these shape culture–as well as how culture shapes lived experiences. By
taking courses from across the college, students learn to think critically about how knowledge is produced. And by working closely with a mentor,
they actively shape a course of study aligned with their distinct interests and abilities (see next section).

What majors/minors/concentrations can students pursue in American Studies department/program? Students work with their advisors to create a focus area for their
coursework. These have included (but are not limited to): Race and Place Urban Planning/Design Asian American Culture Decolonialism and Indigeneity 
Mass Incarceration Cultures of Capitalism Cultural Geography Film and Graphic Novels Archives/Knowledges/Narratives Comparative Race and Ethnicity
Queer Identities and Politics Neoliberalism and Culture Religion and Culture Visual Culture/Visual Storytelling Popular Culture American Studies also
offers a 7-course minor.

What course(s) should a student plan to take in their first year if they intend to major/minor in American Studies department/program?  AM171: Introduction to
American Studies – offered in both semesters What course(s), if any, does your department/program offer that would fulfill a distribution and/or
diversity requirement? AM171: Introduction to American Studies, both semesters, U.S. Diversity AM232: Queer Identities and Politics, Fall, U.S. Diversity
AM254: Surveillance Culture, Fall, U.S. Diversity AM238: Making Modern Science, Spring, Historical Studies  and U.S. Diversity

What else would be helpful for first-year students to know? National studies show that majors in humanistic disciplines find employment at rates equal
to majors in finance and many STEM fields, and they often have greater job satisfaction. And because American Studies teaches you to do what a computer/AI
cannot–think, ask questions–you are unlikely to be replaced by one.

American Studies
Who can students contact if they have additional questions? Benjamin D. Lisle, Associate Professor and Chair of American Studies

Advice from Departments - Anthropology
What would you tell a first-year student about Anthropology? Anthropology students explore the great diversity of human social and cultural experience,
complex social identities, and patterns of globalization, all of which are fundamental to understanding the workings of the world. Whether your interest is
in local communities or global connections, anthropology offers tools for understanding how people everywhere both shape and are shaped by the dynamism of
cross-cultural intersections, history, and meaning. Graduates of the program have a sophisticated understanding of complex cultural differences and research
skills including visual and systemic cultural analysis and how to conduct and analyze interviews, archival material, and participant observation fieldwork.
Our small classes and close faculty mentorship help our majors develop as holistic thinkers and skilled communicators.

What majors/minors/concentrations can students pursue in Anthropology department/program? While Anthropology is a 4-field discipline, our department focuses on
cultural anthropology with some linguistic anthropology courses offered as well. We can guide students interested in archeology or biological anthropology to
study abroad offerings. We offer a major and a minor in Anthropology, and encourage students to double major in complementary fields.

What course(s) should a student plan to take in their first year if they intend to major/minor in Anthropology department/program?  Our gateway course is AY112
Introduction to Cultural Anthropology, which is required for all 200-level and above Anthropology courses. We offer multiple sections of this course in the fall
and the spring. This course can also be counted as an elective for the Global Studies major.

What course(s), if any, does Anthropology department/program offer that would fulfill a distribution and/or diversity requirement?  AY112 Introduction to Cultural
Anthropology fulfills the International Diversity and the Social Sciences distribution requirements. We offer multiple sections of this course in the fall and the spring.

What else would be helpful for first-year students to know? The Anthropology 10 course major and 6 course minor allows students to be flexible and creative with
their studies, exploring a wide range of topics and places. Students can also choose to explore particular issues in great depth and through independent, original
research in an honors thesis project their senior year. All students leave the major with experience conducting ethnographic research and analysis.

Anthropology
Who can students contact if they have additional questions? Britt Halvorson, Associate Professor and Chair of Anthropology

Advice from Departments - Art
What would you tell a first-year student about Art?
We offer two majors, one in Studio and one in Art History–each major requires course(s) in the other–and a minor that offers the possibility of a combination of both.
In Studio, we offer concentrations in Painting, Printmaking, Photography, Sculpture, and Digital Media. In Art History, we offer courses that cover the entire chronological span of history, from introductory surveys to more focused courses as well as thematic courses, seminars, and humanities labs. Many of our classes engage with the collections of the Colby Museum of Art, one of the best college art museums in the United States.

What majors/minors/concentrations can students pursue in the Art department/program?
Studio Art, Art History, Art Minor. We also often supervise students who design an independent major in Architecture.

What course(s) should a student plan to take in their first year if they intend to major/minor in Art department/program? 
Any 100- or 200-level Art class.

What course(s), if any, does Art department/program offer that would fulfill a distribution and/or diversity requirement? 
We offer many different courses that fulfill the Arts distribution
requirement. In some semesters we also offer classes that satisfy the
US and International diversity requirements.
Who can students contact if they have additional questions?

Art
Daniel Harkett, Chair and Associate Professor of Art

Biology
What would you tell a first-year student about Biology?
Biology is the study of life. Colby’s Biology department faculty and academic program span all scales of investigation in the subject from molecules to ecosystems. Students interested in basic biology, medicine, biotechnology, neuroscience and behavior, genomics and bioinformatics, ecology and conservation will find courses in these areas.

What majors/minors/concentrations can students pursue in Biology department/program?
Majors in Computational Biology and Biology, with optional concentrations in Cellular, Molecular Biology and Biochemistry (CMBB), Neuroscience, or Ecology & Evolutionary Biology.

What course(s) should a student plan to take in their first year if they intend to major/minor in Biology department/program?
The full-year introductory sequence, BI163 (Fall) and  BI164 (Spring), should be taken if possible. We encourage all interested students to register for BI163 or to join the waitlist if the course
is full when you try to register for it. The Biology Department will do our best to accommodate all first-year students who are interested in taking BI163. However, biology majors can be completed by
students starting in their second year who are unable to take BI163 and BI164 in their first year.
BI201 is a one-semester workshop for students with AP or IB credit for BI163 and BI164 who don’t feel prepared for a 200-level course, and might want to improve their bench and/or writing skills.
Biology majors should additionally consider taking  the chemistry introductory courses, CH141 (Fall) and CH142 (Spring), in their first year. Students with strong backgrounds in chemistry may consider
CH147, an accelerated one-semester course that fulfills the requirements for both CH141 and CH142. 
Students should also consider finishing a calculus course in their first year following the math department’s guidelines. 
Computational Biology majors should consider CS151 or CS152: both are single semester introductory courses in computer science for students with little to no programming experienc​e.

What course(s), if any, does Biology department/program offer that would fulfill a distribution and/or diversity requirement?
BI118 Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems (Fall, JanPlan, Spring) Natural Sciences
BI128 Human Genetics (Fall) Natural Sciences
BI133 Microorganisms and Society (Spring, typically) Natural Sciences
BI135 Biochemistry of Food (occasionally) Natural Sciences/Natural Sciences with lab
BI137 Biology for Voters (JanPlan) N/NL
BI42 Cancer: From the Clinic to the Lab and Back (Spring, typically) Natural Sciences
BI163 The Cellular Basis of Life (Fall) N/NL, not recommended only to satisfy N/NL
BI164 Evolution & Diversity (Spring) N/NL, not recommended only to satisfy N/NL

Biology
Who can students contact if they have additional questions?
Dave Angelini, Associate Professor and Chair of Biology







What would you tell a first-year student about Chemistry?
Chemistry is an experimental discipline that uses applied principles and new skills to solve scientific problems. Through foundational courses and collaborative research with professors, Colby chemistry
students gain an understanding of chemical processes and acquire the tools to apply that knowledge in innovative ways. Faculty-mentored student projects emphasize modern techniques and instrumentation
and use Colby’s research-grade facilities and laboratories.

What majors/minors/concentrations can students pursue in Chemistry department/program?
The Department offers a major in chemistry as well as chemistry majors that concentrate in biochemistry/molecular biology and environmental science. These options give you the opportunity to focus on a particular area of interest. In addition, a minor in chemistry can be pursued.

What course(s) should a student plan to take in their first year if they intend to major/minor in Chemistry department/program? 
An ideal first year for a prospective chemistry major:
General Chemistry (one of the three options listed below, also recommended in the first year for chemistry minors); students with Chemistry AP (4 or 5) or IB HL (6 or 7) scores who also have a strong laboratory background and consult with and gain permission from the Chemistry Department Chair may instead register for Organic Chemistry: CH 241 (fall) & CH 242 (spring).
Calculus (through multivariable, MA 160 or MA 165)
For concentrations in biochemistry/molecular biology: BI 163 (fall) and BI 164 (spring); BI 164 is a prerequisite for BI 279.
There are three paths through General Chemistry:
CH 141 (fall) & CH 142 (spring): a two-course sequence suitable for students with less exposure to chemistry prior to Colby; these courses represent a standard two-semester college introductory chemistry sequence with lab
OR
CH 121 (fall) & CH 122 (spring): a two-course sequence covering both the General Chemistry curriculum as well as fulfilling the introductory course requirement in Earth Science. Subject matter is taught with a planetary and environmental focus. Suitable for students with less exposure to chemistry prior to Colby; these courses represent a standard two-semester college introductory chemistry sequence with lab
OR
CH 147 (fall, spring): an accelerated one-semester college introductory chemistry course with lab, which also gives credit by examination for CH 141 upon passing the course with a C– or higher; for students with a strong chemistry background (best if a student has taken Honors, AP, or IB chemistry prior to Colby)
What course(s), if any, does your department/program offer that would fulfill a distribution and/or diversity requirement? 
All of the general chemistry courses satisfy the N,Lb (natural science distribution requirement with lab): CH121 (fall), CH122 (spring), CH 141 (fall), CH 142 (spring), CH 147 (fall, spring).

Chemistry
What else would be helpful for first-year students to know?
To allow for maximum flexibility in selecting upper-level courses and participating in independent research or study abroad programs, the Chemistry Department recommends that all chemistry majors complete the following courses by the end of their sophomore  year: 
CH 141 & 142 (or CH 147, or CH121 & CH122) MA 160 (or 165)
CH 241 & 242 PH 141 & 145 (or PH 143 & 145)
Students pursuing the biochemistry/molecular biology major should complete BI 163+164.

Chemistry
Who can students contact if they have additional questions?
Karena McKinney, Associate Professor and Chair of Chemistry