Question:
What are some of the best courses to take for freshman year?

Comments:
I took classes that would help me meet my general requirements and/or classes that were prerequisites for classes I planned to take in the future. Getting the core requirement done early gave me flexibility later on,
so that I was able to take a variety of classes outside my major just because they were interesting. When I started I had intended to major in Physics, but I switched to Philosophy.

I took the following: 1st Semester. Calculus (for people who had taken BC Calc in high school) Calculus-based Physics, German (Intro) - I’d taken French in high school and found it challenging so I thought to try
something different. It would have been easier to stick with French, but I’m glad I gave it a try. Moral Philosophy - This was a sophomore level class but I was given permission to take it based on a class I had in
high school. Professor Reuman who taught the course is the reason I became a philosophy major. He is no longer with us but his legacy remains - Reuman Reading Group | Philosophy. Macro-Economics Jan Plan
Poetry - (I only needed one semester of Freshman English as my high school AP English class used the Kenyon College curriculum and I got credit for that.)

2nd Semester Physics German Logic - I had a visiting professor from Bates rather than Dan Cohen (mentioned by Jeff Carpenter), though I had him later for Contemporary Analytic Philosophy. Micro-Economics
Introduction to Film Having gotten many requirements done early I was later able to take classes like: Theater Tech (this also led to a better work-study job as theater electrician) Buddhist Story Literature
East German Literature (taught in English - I was the only one in the English section of the class so the professor and I met in the pub.) Comparative Communism Japanese Government Women in Film
Overall I think I was right to focus on requirements, but I would suggest choosing one “fun” class each semester.

Have a great time at Colby - be sure to pick a good COOT trip in the fall. I made some of my best friends as a result of that. I did a photography trip. We drove up the coast taking photos and camping at night. Go mules!
Hands down my favorite class freshman year was Philosophy 151 - Logic and Argumentation with Dan Cohen. He's an amazing professor and lecturer (and Colby alum), and you don't wanna miss out on his legendary stories.
Not to mention the course teaches you some pretty useful tools for dissecting arguments and recognizing fallacies in everyday logic.


Question:
What are the tips and hacks for getting the classes that you want as a freshman at Colby College?

Comments:
Well, all one can really do in order to get priority in classes is to be interested in the field that the class is in (ex: history majors get priority in selecting history classes). There is no first come,
first serve, so it’s really all up to chance. However, researching potential classes you’d be interested in and emailing the professors of those classes may increase your chances of getting in, depending on the class size.